
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="pmu_charger_irq_定义">PMU charger irq 定义</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
atc_done_irq: auto trickle charging completed successfully
</p>

<p>
chg_failed_irq: auto charging has failed Maximum fast charging time exceeded without ever reaching termination current
</p>

<p>
trkl_chg_on_irq: Interrupt is high when linear trickle charger is on during software controlled charging
</p>

<p>
atc_failed_irq: auto trickle charging failed
</p>

<p>
fast_chg_on_irq: charger is fast charging
</p>

<p>
chg_done_irq: auto charging has completed successfully
</p>

<p>
chgwdog_irq: Charger watchdog timer expired
</p>

<p>
state_change_irq: charger state machine has changed states
</p>

<p>
chg_gone_irq: Charger Removal was detected
</p>

<p>
dcin_valid_irq: dc in charge path is valid
</p>

<p>
dcin_uv_irq: Dc input charge path under-voltage
</p>

<p>
dcin_ov_irq: dc input charge path over-voltage
</p>

<p>
usbin_valid_irq: usb in charge path is valid
</p>

<p>
usbin_uv_irq: usb input charge path under-voltage
</p>

<p>
usbin_ov_irq: usb input charge path over-voltage
</p>

<p>
coarse_det_low: Generated if both DC path and USB path input voltages are less then the coarse detect falling threshold (~0.7 V) for at least 1 second
</p>

<p>
bat_inserted_irq: Battery inserted indicator
</p>

<p>
bat_removed_irq: Battery removed indicator
</p>

<p>
bat_temp_ok_irq: battery thermistor monitor is enabled and temperature is OK charging ( &gt; 0 °C) or too hot for charging ( &lt; 40 °C )
</p>

<p>
bat_temp_too_cold_irq: battery thermistor monitor is enabled and temperature is too cold for charging ( &lt; 0 °C)
</p>

<p>
bat_temp_too_hot_irq: battery thermistor monitor is enabled and temperature is too hot for charging ( &gt; 40 °C )
</p>

<p>
loop_change_irq: Interrupt is generated when the SMBC buck transitions between control loops (VDD / IBAT / IUSB / VIN). Loop status can be read from test register.
</p>

<p>
buck_vdd_loop_irq: Interrupts when SMBC buck transitions to voltage regulation loop. Can be used by software that needs to begin monitoring for end-of-charge, if current-based EoC is not used.
</p>

<p>
vbatdet_low_irq: VBAT &lt; VBATDET setting as measured by VBATDET comparator
</p>

<p>
vbatdet_high_irq: VBATDET threshold reached : 1 = VBAT reached the top-off threshold setting (VBATDET register setting). Pulse charging begins (if enabled).
</p>

<p>
vreg_ov_irq: Generated if SMBC buck detects and overshoot voltage greater then 5% of the programmed VDD_MAX value.
</p>

<p>
vbat_ov_irq: Generated if VBAT &gt; VBATDET for at least 1 us
</p>

<p>
batfet_irq: BATFET closed : 1 = Battery FET has been closed, i.e. BAT_FET_N pin = 0. Either it was programmed via SBI, or the charger 
automatically closed due to VDD collapse protection, or due to pulse charging.
</p>

<p>
overtemp_irq: Charger temperature exceeded PD_Temp_High2
</p>

<p>
vcp_irq: VDD collapse protection was triggered. 1 = VDD went below VBAT and PMIC turned on the battery FET to prevent a shutdown.
</p>

<p>
psi_irq: PMIC Serial Interface Interrupt for digital battery ID communication interface. Generated every time 32 PSI samples are transmitted or received
</p>

</div>
